To my apprentice Onogug:

I know it is you who reads this.   Of anyone I have met, in all of my many encounters, there is but one who would be both brave and foolish enough to risk a rescue of an old man like me.  I write in haste, for this foul devil's torments already tear at my being and I feel I am losing myself.  Worry not, nor reproach yourself for this, for it was destined to be thus.  Lathandar revealed to me the sacrifice I would be called to make when I sought out his guidance in the temple of the sun.   You are special and are meant for great deeds.   You and your companions are meant to deliver this world from a terrible evil and if I must give myself for such a cause, I do so with a glad heart, singing songs to the glory of the MorningLord.  
It was in a journey long before I even met you that Lathandar himself spoke his vision to me.  He told me I would find and train a follower of Lathandar unlike any who had come before.  He also revealed to me the great sacrifice I would be called to make so that you could succeed in your quest.  You are destined to rescue the people of the world, and also to take my life.  It is not such that you can do one, without also doing the other.  It fills me with sorrow to place such a burden upon you but by the time you read this, I am likely already lost.  Know that the glory of Lathandar is found in rebirth and it is only through the death of the old that the new can arise.  My time as the chosen servant of the MorningLord is at an end and it is now to be your time.
I feel honored and blessed to be called to be the penance of Lathandar.  I know not the purpose or the cause but I am grateful.  I gladly accept the task, despite everything that will happen, knowing it is all for the good.
Walk always with Lathandar.  Seek peace but prepare for war.  You enemies will attempt to deceive and mislead you but if you have patience and calmness of spirit their plans will reveal themselves.  Shepard your companions and help them in whatever way you can, for their struggles will be great as well.  The path you travel is long and difficult, and I know that you will stumble.  Persevere and let not your failures or mistakes, whatever they may be, cause you to abandon what I have taught you and know that I will always guide you.  
Seek out the Iron Wanderer in the tormented wastes.  He is a valuable ally in this holy work you have been set upon.  He will be difficult to find, but you will learn what you need when the time is right.
You will find a knife among the belongings of the devil.  He thinks I do not know of it.  The knife is blessed and filled with holy water and is used to torment and threaten the other devils of this terrible place.  It is the only weapon that can slay me in this place.  Take it, and strike me down I beseech you.  Fulfil the prophesy revealed to me in the temple of the sun.  

Remember all I have taught you and know that I am with you throughout this journey.  You are my greatest apprentice and I know you will succeed in your quest.

Anaoc Zosimus