Onogug awoke to the sounds of a cart, slowly grinding its way down an uneven dirt road.  A grizzled old man sat atop the cart and squinted out at the dirty armored adventurer.  Onogug blinked in the bright sun and tried to get his bearings.  He remembered the healing spell that had failed and he seemed to remember really enjoying being a plant.  More importantly he remembered suddenly transforming back in the grip of an intense storm.  He had been trying to wait for his companions who had likely found a way into the building in the center of the druid circle, but suddenly... he was here.  He glanced around nervously and croaked "Brandong?"  "Nay, I don't know anyone by that name." said the man in the cart, that was now right beside him.  The driver clicked his tongue and pulled the tired horse to a stop.  "You're a man of cloth eh?  At least I think so.  My eyes aren't so good anymore".  Onogug hesitated and cautiously replied "Yes.  Lathandar".  "Eh? well, if you need a ride, hop in the back.  No sense sitting around out here".  Onogug glanced at the rolling fields stretching out in all directions, realizing there wasn't much else to do, tossed the man a silver from his pouch and clambered into the back of the cart

Onogug sat quietly in the back of the old man's cart, recounting the events that led him to this place.  He accounted for his belongings, which appeared to be all present and adjusted his attire to allow him to shield his orcan features with a dark hood.  He was still busying himself with small things when the wagon creaked to a stop in front of a quaint farmstead.  "This is as far as I'm going, and the day is getting long" the old man grunted over his shoulder.  You can stay with us for the night if you'd like and head to town in the morning.  I'd only ask that you offer our home a prayer and blessing from... what did you say the name was... Lathendig?"  The question made Onogug's eye's widen.  This seemed to be a very rural area, but Lathandar had a presence across the known world.  The man's family was coming out of the house to help unload the supplies from the wagon.  Onogug tried to jump down from the wagon to help, his mind racing, but in his distraction his foot caught on the lip of the cart and he pitched over into the dirt.  He sprung up, grasping desperately to pull his hood back up over his head, but it was too late.  The family gaped at him, not in horror, but rather curiosity.  "Hmm," said a woman close to him who seemed to be the old man's wife.  "Haven't seen your kind before.  Where do you hail from?"  Onogug's eyes widened further as he realized that Lathander wasn't the only thing these people didn't know.  Perhaps he had traveled further then he thought.

Onogug sat quietly in front of the remnants of the simple meal the family prepared.  After the incident at the cart he had quickly been introduced to the family.  The old man who had found him was named Garrin and his wife Claya had invited him, quite kindly, to join them for dinner and spend the night at their farm.  Onogug had started to protest, intending to journey onward, but the family insisted and Onogug had to admit there was no point in walking when he didn't even know where to go.  Claya's daughter Erilee helped prepare the meal in the kitchen, while their older son Shad had finished up out in the fields.  The dinner was simple, but good and Onogug had to admit it was the best he'd eaten in quite some time.  
Garrin's 10 year old son Arza came up to Onogug while he was lost in thought.  "How did you become a cleric?".  Onogug scrunched his brow and replied "I'm not sure, I think it might have just been destiny".  Onogug was still considering that question as Arza continued "Do you make other people follow your god?".  "Sometimes" said Onogug, before adding "wait, but I don't really *make* them...".  "What do you do if they don't follow?" Arza interrupted "or if they follow another?  Do you kill them?".  Onogug was about to answer when Claya interjected nervously "Arza! That is not how to treat a guest of the cloth.  Mind your questions, and to bed with you".  Garrin stood by the window with a look of concern "I think perhaps we should all be going to bed" he said "snuff the candles and close the windows".  The children snapped into action, in practiced form, reducing the house to darkness in minutes.  Onogug was stuck by the oddness of this place, but he was very tired.  Perhaps a nights rest could clear his mind and help him figure out how to get home.  He ventured over to a corner of the back room and laid out his bedroll, falling asleep almost instantly.  He snapped awake to the sounds of shouting.  Garrin stood in the open doorway of the house, speaking to someone Onogug couldn't see as the family looked on nervously.  Sounds of conflict and screaming pierced the air from beyond the farmstead.  Outside the door Onogug could see the horizon lit by an unnatural red glow.  A good night's rest would have to wait.

Onogug quickly donned his armor and began to creep slowly towards the door.  He kept to the side wall, making sure that he was out of sight of whomever it was that was talking to Garrin.  As he got closer, he could make out rough voices and Garrin's strained replies as he attempted to placate the questions.  "Did you resist them or not?".  "How?" replied Garrin, "I am no fighter, nor are any in my family.  We simply told them what they wanted to hear, so they would leave us alone, but I swear, we kept all the rituals of Ibus in secret".  Onogug's shoulders relaxed.  It seemed Garrin would be able to calm the situation.  Suddenly he heard the scraping of a sword being drawn.  In an instant the glistening blade, dripping with blood was protruding from Garrin's back.  Onogug heard Claya scream and Erilee begin to cry.  He raised his weapon and began the chant of 'Spare the dying'.  He started to sprint towards the door when he was stopped by the booming voice of Lathandar himself, echoing in his head, causing his vision to briefly turn red.  "No!  Save the boy!".  Onogug swooned and staggered backwards.  He recovered in time to see the door burst open and dozens of warriors swarm into the house.  Any attempt at heroics would have been suicide, but still his heart ached as he rushed towards the back of the house.   He caught a glimpse of Claya pressed into the far corner of the room holding tightly to her sobbing daughter.  Shad stood in front of them, awkwardly waving a hand scythe to ward off the attackers.  Onogug knew how that confrontation would end, but he forced himself to focus and continued towards the back room of the house.  Claya gaze burned with betrayal and anger as he passed by them and opened the door to the sleeping area.  Inside he spotted Arza, a single knitting needle clutched in his shaking hand.  Unsure of exactly what to say, Onogug scooped the boy up like a sack of flour, smashed open the shutters on the rear window and dumped him outside, and then climbed through as well.  Arza struggled to his feet, visibly trembling and said in a shaky, cracking voice "No!  No, you have to go back and save them too.  I won't leave until you save them all too".  Onogug tried to think of something to say, but could only numbly shake his head.  Arza's pleas became more frantic "You can't just leave them there.  Go back and rescue them!"   Onogug turned away, so Arza couldn't see him wipe his eyes.  After a moment, he turned back, strode forward and grabbed Arza's arm and pulled him towards a small copse of trees about 200 yards behind the house.  "I can't." he said, struggling to keep his voice calm  "I'm sorry, but I can't"

Onogug and Arza traveled together for several days, navigating through wilderness and underbrush, dodging patrols and any signs of military presence.  Arza refused to speak, offering only surly grunts to directions or questions.  Onogug tried to engage the boy with little luck.  He cursed at himself as he walked, wishing he knew how Anaoc seemed to handle situations like this so effortlessly.  After four nights, as they had before, the two found themselves that evening huddled around the pathetic flames of a small campfire in a secluded wood.  Onogug looked up at Arza, who glared back at him briefly before turning to stare stone-faced at the fire.  "It would be helpful" Onogug began slowly, "to have some plan of where to go...".  The words had barely left his mouth when Arza sprung to his feet.  "YOU LET THEM DIE!!".  His face flushed red and the words, pent up for days poured forth.  "What good is your weapon, your armor?  What good is your god?  You did nothing.  Nothing! You just let them suffer and die.".  A feeling of calmness settled on Onogug, and the words he had been searching for came to him.  "I did not let them die." Onogug began softly, "I was able to save you.  Despise me if you must, but do not allow your family to have suffered in vain.  Do not waste their sacrifice with spite at the chance you have been given".  Onogug reached out and offered his holy symbol.  "Take this and pray to Lathandar.  Ask for guidance and peace.  Seek him, and allow yourself to be reborn"  Arza's eyes widened in surprise, wet with tears.  He slowly extended his hand and accepted the holy symbol.  Onogug sighed quietly, thinking of the words he had just spoken; words that, in a similar form, Anaoc had once said to him.  He stared into the dying embers of the fire for some time reflecting on this before finally falling asleep. 
Onogug awoke to the smell of food.  Arza sat in front of the small fire, cooking some rations.  Onogug could see his holy symbol hanging about the boy's neck.  "I think Pel Karas is a few miles north of here." Arza said meekly.  "I used to travel there with my father when I was younger, to get supplies for the farm".  Onogug grinned.  That would do just fine.  "Then we will set out after breakfast.  Thank you for preparing the meal".  Arza nodded slightly but seemed lost in thought.  Onogug let him be and busied himself with picking up their supplies and preparing for the trek to the city.  

Onogug and Arza cautiously approached the city, quickly realizing things were far worse than expected.  They continued on, however, for lack of a better destination.  Arza had indicated that Pel Karas was a port city.  Perhaps there was a ship that could transport them to safety.  It was obvious, even from a distance that the city had recently been breached.  The great wooden doors hung awkwardly against the sides of the gates.  Inside the city was chaos as the forces that had captured the city still fought, street by street to subdue the population and crush the remaining defenders.  Onogug pulled his cowl over his head and rushed through the open gate, keeping to alleyways and trying to travel with crowds.   However, news of his encounter with the soldiers on the road flew faster than he and Arza could hope to, and they soon began to attract notice. 
It was Arza who first noticed they were being tailed.  Several armored warriors, emblazoned with the same crests as the ones from the road were tracking them carefully, shadowing their serpentine path through the city.  It seemed like luck might be on their side though.  Breaking across a courtyard, the salty smell of sea air hit their nostrils and the tall masts of ships could be seen in the distance.  Onogug grabbed Arza's arm, and cut sharply in between two buildings and out to the main road.  There a large man with a hawkish nose stepped out into view, flanked by two wary fighters.  "Ok, that's quite far enough, stranger.  Lay down your weapons and surrender.".  "Not today, fool", Onogug sneered, "Arza, run to the docks and don't stop.  I'll be right behind you".  He whipped his hand up and growled out an incantation and in an instant, the man with the hawkish nose disappeared.  Onogug had already broken into a sprint, dashing between the stunned fighters, through the place once occupied by their leader.  Arza followed quickly, though unencumbered by armor he was soon well ahead of Onogug.  They arrived at the docks, and Arza hesitated.  Onogug, seeing him pause, pointed to a pier with a ship moored, already loaded with refugees and shouted "That way".  The two thundered down the dock with a growing band of angry soldiers on their heels.  The captain of the ship, seeing Onogug and his pursuers rapidly closing on him, hastily worked to cast off.  Onogug grinned, "yet another narrow escape", he chuckled to himself, when suddenly his vision went white with pain and he pitched forward, an arrow protruding from his calf.  Arza whirled around and sprinted back to Onogug who was struggling to his feet.  He got there just in time for Onogug to grab him close and crouch behind his shield as a dozen more arrows peppered the dock.  "Get in the boat Arza", Onogug snarled, through clenched teeth.  Arza began to protest, but Onogug's glare silenced him.  The warriors, confident that the arrows had done their work pushed forward to engage.  Onogug swung his mace back and forth while slowly backing towards the boat.  He glanced behind him in time to see Arza jump wildly into the boat, which was already beginning to pull away from the dock.  He turned back as more warriors bore down on him.  A fighter swung high and Onogug deflected the blow with his shield and buried his mace into the man's exposed stomach.  Another soldier thrust forward, his sword glancing against the side of Onogug's armor.  Onogug turned around quickly, elbowing the off balance fighter into the water.  Onogug then took one final sweeping swing to drive back his attackers and turned to sprint towards the boat.
He had only taken a few steps when another arrow struck him in the shoulder, causing him to lean heavily on his wounded leg.  Onogug briefly collapsed to one knee, before grunting and forcing himself to his feet.  The delay was enough for his pursuers.  As he began to rush forward again a spear thrust pierced his back, running him through and protruding from his chest.  Onogug looked down at the spear in confusion.  It seemed like the wound should hurt, but it oddly did not.  He looked back up.  The ship was now a good distance from the dock, and he could barely make out the figure of Arza in the stern.  Arza seemed to be yelling something, but Onogug couldn't hear what he was saying.  The boy was holding up his holy symbol, and the afternoon sun glinted off the metal.  It seemed to Onogug that darkness was closing in on that single point of light, as it swung from Arza's outstretched hand. He focused on the light, willing it to grow stronger, watching it as it swayed back and forth, keeping a strange melodic rhythm.  He was laying down now, though he knew not how.  He was so tired and cold, but he couldn't sleep, not while this twinkling light mesmerized him.  He intently watched that single star in the night sky as it grew fainter and fainter, until finally, after what seemed like an eternity, it too went dark.

Onogug jolted awake, grasping reflexively for his chest.  His eyes shot up and he gazed in wonder around the room that he was in.  It looked vaguely familiar; similar in ways to the temple of the sun, but almost infinitely more massive.  The gigantic tree dominated the room, it's edges fading off in the distance, farther than Onogug could see.  The walls seemed translucent, as if he could reach through them out into endless nothing.  Then Onogug looked up, and his breath caught in awe.  The branches of the tree spread out in thousands of directions reaching up into black nothingness.  The tree extended up into the heavens, reaching miles into a dark sky, littered with twinkling lights.   The branches stretched towards these lights and the closer ones showed themselves to be a small sphere, like a porthole of a ship showing a glimpse into another world.  Onogug tore his eyes away, his head spinning and took a few breaths to steady himself before looking back up.  Most of the spheres he could see looked into countless copies of the temple of the sun.  Thousands of them, all different.  Some cloaked in ice, or overgrown with moss and lichens.  Others appeared to be in wasted deserts or nestled in verdant forests and hundreds even more fantastic and unusual.  A few of the branches appeared dead, shriveled and dried and the temples these strands touched had been razed or burned.  
A voice spoke out of nothingness.  "You planted a seed".  The speech came on a gust of wind that caused the tree to sway gently, or perhaps, it was the tree that caused the breeze.  Onogug looked around with confusion.  Another gust, the tree leaned and a branch pulled closer into view, a new bud reaching towards its goal.  Within the shimmering globe Onogug could vaguely see Arza climbing out of the boat with the other refugees.  Several of them followed him as he strode confidently into the city.  "You are my chosen.  A life of difficulty, struggle and pain" the voice said sorrowfully.  There was a pause, "and eventually, failure.".  "What do you mean?" asked Onogug, "Did I do poorly or fail in some way?".  The room filled with an orange glow, like the first morning sunrise.  "No no, my child.  You did very well.  But there will be more, always more, each one a challenge, a trial and a temptation".  Onogug considered this carefully, reflecting back on his time with Arza and his family.  "Will Arza be ok?" he asked softly.  "What Arza will be is up to him now.  It is he who will decide what he grows into"  
A thought occurred to Onogug.  "My friends, are they well?  I need to return.  It is likely they have been causing trouble and making bad decisions while I've been away".  "They have done as best they can, considering..." the voice said with a sigh.  "The task you complete with them is your most important, I shall not endanger it, even if I have cause to pull you away".  Onogug looked confused.  "Task?" he began carefully.  "Yes.  You and your companions are righting a wrong.  The echoes of a calamity, almost forgotten, but that festers quietly under the surface and threatens soon to burst forth and consume everything".  Onogug's eyes widened.  "Then what should we do?  Where should we go?  Give me direction. Please!".  The voice was silent for several moments.  "It is not for me to interfere.  These are the rules of your world.  It is either men or gods who decide fate.  It should never be both.  Interference has caused too much suffering already."
Onogug felt himself start to pull from the strange world.  The tree and the points of light began to become hazy.  Onogug's mind raced with questions.  "Wait" he called desperately, hoping to seize one final answer.  "Did Anaoc fail?".  There was a pause and the room darkened.  "Yes." was the response.  "Anaoc was a faithful and capable servant, but in his hubris he built a temple to me on the bones of Tektos.  There are some who believe that they can discard the old to build the new.  What has come before is inextricably part of everything new.  An endless chain.  With his foolish pride, Anaoc laid the groundwork of his own downfall".  Onogug's breath caught in his throat and a feeling of fear swept over him.  "So is he lost?" said Onogug fearfully.  The calm morning glow returned to the room.  "No my son." said the voice brightly.  "You saved him.  Just as one day, you too might be saved".  A vision of Anaoc floated in front of Onogug.  His former mentor seemed at peace.  The lines of pain and suffering, the horrid state Onogug had last seen him was wiped away, replaced again by the familiar knowing smile.
Onogug jolted up out of bed.  There was a startled cry from the corner of the simple room he was in.  A young man, dressed in the robes of Lathander jumped out of a chair and hurried to the bed.  "Chosen one!" he shouted, "Praise be to Lathander.  I hope you find this room to your liking.  I was called by Lathander himself to hold a room at the Travelers Inn.  I hope it is to your liking.".  Onogug stared at him in confusion for a few moments.  "My companions?" Onogug said hoarsely, still trying to gather his wits.  The young acolyte told him where the party was staying in the city.  "I know not what they did when they traveled south, but while they've been in the city; we've been watching.  Our clerics have reported to me so that I might tell you."  After a short discussion Onogug thanked the young man and gathered his belongings.  He stepped out of the room into the crisp morning air and bustle of Thiaca headed towards the former abode of Basitijn.